README.md, before:

# CTS Backend Application

The CTS Backend Application is a simple connectivity test server designed to support the mobile multiplayer game "Fun7" by providing latency measurements to determine the best backend server for game connectivity.

## Prerequisites

- Docker: [Installation Guide](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- Python 3.9 or higher: [Installation Guide](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

## Installation (Run locally)

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Ilievski-Daniel/cts-backend.git
   cd cts-backend
   ```

2. Build the Docker image:

    ```
    docker build -t cts-backend .
    ```

3. Access the CTS API endpoint:

    ```
    curl http://localhost:8080/ping
    ```

<b>The response should be a JSON object with a "message" field.</b>

## Configuration

Port: By default, the application runs on port 8080.

If you wish to change the port, you can modify the main.py file and the Dockerfile. In the main.py file, locate the line app.run(host='0.0.0.0', port=8080) and change the port parameter to your desired port number. Similarly, in the Dockerfile, locate the line EXPOSE 8080 and update the exposed port number accordingly.

Please ensure that you make consistent changes in both files to ensure proper functioning of the application.

## CI/CD Pipeline

The project includes a CI/CD pipeline for automated testing and deployment. 

### It consists of two jobs:

- <b>testing:</b> 
    This job runs on the ubuntu-latest environment and performs linting and unit testing of the application code.

- <b>deploy:</b> 
    This job runs on the ubuntu-latest environment and is triggered only when the testing job is successful and the branch is main. 

    It builds a Docker image, pushes it to Docker Hub, configures the necessary tools for Google Cloud deployment, checks and deletes the existing deployment and service (if any), and then deploys the updated application to the GKE cluster.

Please refer to the [CI/CD Pipeline](/.github/workflows/ci_cd_pipeline.yaml) workflow in the repository for more details on the pipeline configuration.

## Contact
For any questions or inquiries, please contact: [Daniel Ilievski](https://www.linkedin.com/in/danielilievski/)

Commit message:

Update README.md with CI/CD pipeline configuration

README.md, after:

# CTS Backend Application

The CTS Backend Application is a simple connectivity test server designed to support the mobile multiplayer game "Fun7" by providing latency measurements to determine the best backend server for game connectivity.

## Prerequisites

- Docker: [Installation Guide](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- Python 3.9 or higher: [Installation Guide](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

## Installation (Run locally)

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Ilievski-Daniel/cts-backend.git
   cd cts-backend
   ```

2. Build the Docker image:

    ```
    docker build -t cts-backend .
    ```

3. Access the CTS API endpoint:

    ```
    curl http://localhost:8080/ping
    ```

<b>The response should be a JSON object with a "message" field.</b>

## Configuration

Port: By default, the application runs on port 8080.

If you wish to change the port, you can modify the main.py file and the Dockerfile. In the main.py file, locate the line app.run(host='0.0.0.0', port=8080) and change the port parameter to your desired port number. Similarly, in the Dockerfile, locate the line EXPOSE 8080 and update the exposed port number accordingly.

Please ensure that you make consistent changes in both files to ensure proper functioning of the application.

## CI/CD Pipeline

The project includes a CI/CD pipeline for automated testing and deployment. 

### It consists of two jobs:

- <b>testing:</b> 
    This job runs on the ubuntu-latest environment and performs linting and unit testing of the application code.

- <b>deploy:</b> 
    This job runs on the ubuntu-latest environment and is triggered only when the testing job is successful and the branch is main. 

    It builds a Docker image, pushes it to Docker Hub, configures the necessary tools for Google Cloud deployment, checks and deletes the existing deployment and service (if any), and then deploys the updated application to the GKE cluster.

Please refer to the [CI/CD Pipeline](/.github/workflows/ci_cd_pipeline.yaml) workflow in the repository for more details on the pipeline configuration.

## GitHub Actions Pipeline Configuration

### Variables

To set up the CI/CD pipeline, you need to define the following variables:

| Variable           |  Description                                |
|:-------------------|:--------------------------------------------|
| SERVICE_PORT       | Port number for the CTS backend service     |
| CONTAINER_PORT     | Port number the container is listening on   |
| GKE_CLUSTER_NAME   | Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) cluster name |
| GCP_PROJECT_ID     | Google Cloud Platform region                |
| GCP_REGION         | Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) cluster name |
| GCP_ZONE	         | Google Cloud Platform zone                  |

Make sure to provide the necessary values for these variables when configuring the GitHub Actions pipeline. 

### Secrets

The following secrets should be added to the GitHub repository:

| Secret          |  Description                                                       |
|:----------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| DOCKER_USERNAME | Docker Hub username                                                |
| DOCKER_PASSWORD | Docker Hub password                                                |
| GCP_SA_KEY      | Service account key for Google Cloud Platform authentication (JSON)|

Make sure to provide the actual values for these secrets in the repository's settings or the GitHub Actions secrets section.

## Contact
For any questions or inquiries, please contact: [Daniel Ilievski](https://www.linkedin.com/in/danielilievski/)
